Hello, my name is Peter Pavel Srukov.
The topic of our lesson today is innovative thinking and creativity, intuition in business.
Today we will look at the world, the world of mysteries, the world of miracles and magic,
the world of full possibilities, the possibilities that open up before us,
and the magic that we will create with you in this world and for this world.
Creativity and creative abilities.
At the moment, we can say that we all live in the same world.
We all work on certain projects.
We all work on some jobs.
Some of us are in a better position, some are in a worse position.
Some of us strive upwards, and some of us remain at their level and do not develop throughout their lives.
Why does this happen? How does this happen?
Let's pay attention to the pyramid that is being built today in society,
which is being built not only in society, but also in the market,
to the pyramid that is being built in business.
What can we see?
What is it? Or who is at the first step of this pyramid?
As a rule, these are low-skilled workers, or as a rule, these are low-skilled specialists.
The majority of them.
And we see that this mass is the foundation of the pyramid.
But, as always, among this majority, there are special people,
those who do not want to be at the level of everyone.
They strive a little higher.
Either to command others, or to receive higher salaries,
or to drive the best cars, or to rest in the best hotels.
And we say that these people are more successful.
We say that these people, some of them, can stand out.
But not all of them.
And finally, what can we see?
That the most successful people are at the very top of the pyramid.
There are the least of them, but they have achieved success.
And they use all the best benefits of civilization.
All the best benefits that the world gives to these people.
Moreover, these benefits are not made on their own.
And they produce them.
How do many businessmen, many successful people, ask the question,
how did you achieve such success?
Very often, in most cases, we hear the answer,
thanks to our creative abilities,
thanks to the chance or the case that we took advantage of,
thanks to our strong work ability,
thanks to our goal-orientedness,
thanks to the construction of plans and the systematic movement to the goals.
We will consider all these things today.
But, note that, among other things, there was a moment,
a question, or an answer, that made us doubt.
This question and this answer are creative abilities.
As we know, creative abilities are not given to everyone.
What to do?
Let's turn the page and see.
Are we capable of creativity?
Are you capable of creating?
Think about this question now and try to complete the creative task.
So, use only 10 figures.
An ellipse, it can be ovals or circles,
a triangle and a rectangle.
Please, use only 10 figures.
It can be only circles or three circles,
four triangles, two rectangles and one more oval.
Or it can be all rectangles.
The fact remains the fact.
You have one limitation.
One limitation is 10 figures.
10 figures.
From these 10 figures you have to make a figure of a living person.
Please, draw.
Before you start the task, I want to give you one piece of advice.
This is a creative task.
Therefore, you have to complete it as only you and no one else can.
You have to put all your creative abilities into it.
Please, stop the recording now.
Take a pen, a piece of paper,
a piece of paper in a free area,
and draw a figure of a living person.
You have 5 minutes.
You are doing it for yourself.
Stop the recording and draw a figure of a living person.
You have 5 minutes.
Start it again.
Before we look at the result,
let's decide what creativity is.
Creativity is, first of all, productivity.
You have to get a product.
In our case, it is a drawing.
It has to be elaborated, with details.
And, of course, preferably not alone.
Think about it. A figure of a living person.
What else is creativity?
Creativity is novelty.
There is no point in repeating what has already been done by others.
You have to add something new.
To define your own fresh look.
Creativity is purposefulness.
It is not interesting to have something new.
You have to add some creative idea,
some constructive feature
necessary for further decisions.
You have to do something with it.
You recall an anecdote.
A teacher gathered a meeting and asked the children,
Children, we are having a celebration soon.
Let's decorate our classroom.
Please, suggest something.
What can you suggest for our class?
The children are reaching out.
He says, yes, please, Masha, what do you want to say?
Masha says, let's bring flowers to the school
and decorate the windowsill with flowers.
The teacher says, Masha, good job, let's do it.
The teacher reaches out to Seryozha.
She says, Seryozha, what do you want to suggest?
Seryozha says, let's bring photos to the school
and decorate our classroom with photos of our families,
our children, our toys.
She says, good job, Seryozha, well done, let's do it.
She reaches out to Vasya.
She says, Vasya, what do you want to say?
Vasya stands up and says, let's put a red line on the ceiling.
The teacher says, Vasya, what kind of expression is that?
What kind of red line?
Let's go to the parents' school, quickly.
On Saturday, on Friday, they come to the parents' school.
The teacher says, can you imagine?
Masha says, let's bring flowers.
Seryozha says, let's bring photos to decorate the classroom.
And Vasya says, let's put a red line.
The teacher looks at her and says,
I don't like red, let's put a blue line.
The point is that the new thing is not interesting,
it is not needed by anyone, it will not be in demand.
What's the point of painting the snow red?
If you don't explain the purpose of your action,
then they will think that there was white snow, and you ruined it.
The next feature of creativity is originality.
You and no one else can do that.
If you ask 100 people to give them a sheet of paper
with a circle on it,
and ask them to draw something on this circle,
most people will draw a beak without thinking,
and will say that it is a sun.
Another part of people will draw eyes, mouth, nose,
and will say that it is a little man.
And only one or two people will draw a cat, a jaguar,
and will say that this circle is a spot on their wool.
There is a test in psychology.
On a sheet of paper, they draw a square,
and ask a person to draw a circle on it,
without giving any more tasks.
The vast majority of people draw this circle
either inside the square, or outside.
And only one person will turn the sheet of paper over
and draw a circle on this side.
Creativity is always a way out of the task.
Availability.
The next feature of creativity is that your image should be understandable to others.
It should not be just a thing.
It should be a concept.
It should not be just an artistic concept.
It should be a clear concept,
so that other people, looking at this image, understand what you want to say.
And finally, the most important concept is vitality.
Your image should live and emit energy.
Let's compare the images you have,
the figures you have drawn,
and the figures drawn by people with advanced creative abilities.
In this case, this is a selection of drawings.
These were the most creative and successful tasks.
Let's look at them.
Each of these images satisfies the conditions of the task.
Each of these images has exactly 10 figures.
Each of these figures is alive, original, and accessible to the eye.
This figure is interesting,
because it has turned into two figures, not one.
Here, each figure has 10 figures, triangles and circles.
And finally, here it is, the exit beyond the frame.
Here it is, the exit beyond the frame of the task.
Here it is, the introduction of your personal artist.
As they say, who is talking about what.
Let's talk about what prevents us from being creative.
What prevents us from doing creativity,
and does not allow us to do what others do.
Why is it given to some, not to others?
Why do they say that some are given by God, but others are not?
Why do they say that this one sees and knows how to take advantage of the chance,
and the chance passes by us?
Why do they say that one sees and can draw a black square
and give it to others for a brilliant work,
and others draw a black square and say,
well, what did you draw, my friend?
What kind of artist are you?
So, the inertia of thinking that does not allow a person to create,
to take advantage of, to offer the world something new,
has its deep historical roots.
First of all, let's remember how humanity developed.
How from the Stone Age a person came to the present.
After all, this, in fact, was not so long ago.
And we can all imagine how a tribe of savages
sat in a cave by the fire,
fried a leg of a mammoth,
sang some songs,
and then, behind the walls of the cave,
in the street, a morning cry is heard.
What do all the savages do?
They are silent.
Mothers hide their children.
And one, some innovator, curious, says,
what is it that is so roaring?
He says, let me go out and see.
He goes out into the street and faces a sad bear.
The tribe manages to get rid of him.
And the mothers tell their children,
look, do not stick out, be like everyone else,
do not try to go beyond the limits.
As they say, the innovator did not leave the offspring,
those who are not interested in him survive.
The next example.
The same tribe walks through the forest,
collects berries, mushrooms,
in order to feed somehow this day.
Everyone collects pine needles,
pines, birch, apples, pears,
ribs, plums, raspberries,
and only one goes and collects mushrooms
with red spots.
He likes them, they are creative,
they do not look like the rest.
What happens?
Everything happens, the tribe lives normally,
continues to live the measured life that lived,
and this one, well, as God wills,
either ate the mushrooms called fly-amores
and left the world,
or the spirits of the forest came to him,
began to enlighten him about how to arrange the world,
how to pray to the gods, and so on.
In other words, he becomes a shaman.
We know that in the Old Testament it happened
that shamans, clergymen, cult servants,
they have no families,
and therefore do not leave offspring,
as people who left our world do not leave offspring.
All this happens because of the attraction to the new,
the attraction to the unknown.
Thus, throughout the life of a person,
all his evolutionary stories
are formed in the head,
the zone of anxiety and the zone of pleasure.
They can be depicted as follows.
If we take the skull,
the brain,
the brain of the head,
then the zones of anxiety
will be represented by such a mesh.
And only small areas
will be responsible for the pleasure.
These experiments were carried out by our domestic psychophysiologists,
American and German psychophysiologists,
and they achieved exceptional results.
It turned out that the information,
before it gets to the center of pleasure,
it passes through the mesh of these centers of anxiety.
And the first thing a person says when he encounters a new one is,
is it dangerous?
What is the danger to me?
What can happen
if I use something new?
You can give me a lot of examples
of how you were offered something new,
and you said,
this is new, this is not verified,
it is not known whether it will work.
And only in the last decade we have been observing the race for new.
But where is this race for new?
It is on the edge, at the peak of innovation.
At the moment we are waiting for a new mobile phone,
we are waiting for a new, more fast-acting computer,
when a new TV will finally appear
with a clearer image,
when we will get new DVDs with a new quality,
and so on and so forth.
But, pay attention,
if I offer you a car with a hydrogen engine,
will you buy it in a queue?
You will not immediately say,
but where will I refuel?
Hydrogen explodes much more than gasoline,
will this car drive?
All your arguments are justified,
and all your arguments are caused by the centers of anxiety.
And this is right,
because if you were constantly
enjoying,
it would not lead us to the evolutionary peak
that we are at today.
The same scientists,
the same psychophysiologists,
conducted the following experiments.
They took a rat,
poor rats,
opened the skull box,
and put an electrode
right in one of the centers of pleasure.
And they taught the rat to use this electrode.
That is, they showed the rat a button
that it can press
and at that moment get bliss,
the pleasure that this part of the brain is responsible for.
What do you think happened?
How fast did the rat learn
to use this button?
How do you think?
How long did the rat live?
Yes, the rat died of dehydration.
Despite the fact that there was water in its cell,
there was food,
the rat pressed the button and did not leave it.
The rat lived until the end of its life.
The next stage is psychological.
This is also a very important criterion
and a very important factor
of emergence of the human thinking.
Again, scientists,
psychologists,
and physiologists
have processed data
from many experiments.
If we look at the human brain,
we will find that it consists of two parts.
Two halves of the large hemispheres of the brain
are the right and left hemispheres.
In fact, the right and left hemispheres
determine each of them
for the area of responsibility
associated with the field of human activity.
The right hemisphere of the human brain
is responsible for creative abilities,
for creative inclinations,
for the perception of beauty,
for the perception of music,
for the perception of pictures, nature,
singing of birds,
and the left hemisphere is responsible for logic.
The left hemisphere is the area of numbers,
of evidence,
of logical reasoning,
and of everything rational.
So, there are two parts,
emotional and rational.
If we return to the inner dialogue,
we will ask ourselves when we are thinking
that each of us has an inner dialogue.
We can say that it is the two halves of our brain
that are talking.
One has a creative and the other has a rational beginning.
Now let's go back to our childhood
and remember when we wanted to do something new.
When we wanted to play a prank,
measure the depth of this puddle,
climb this tree,
look where the sun sets,
what our parents told us,
don't dream,
do your business,
don't even think about it.
As a result,
the main goal of our childhood
was to do something new.
We were not able to do it,
but we were able to realize that
the main dominant half-ball
is the one that is responsible
for the rational behavior.
It is like it is increasing its volume
and telling its creative half-ball
to wait,
not to hurry,
to listen to it.
Now we have important things
that don't require delay.
Now we have things that pay us money
or give us awards
and we get paid for them.
Therefore, all your ideas
and all your proposals
are good,
they are good for recreation,
but now it is time to work.
Wait, don't dream, don't think.
It turns out that
during one's life
a person develops rational,
kills creative.
Therefore, new creative abilities
are not important.
A person is creative or not.
In reality, we are all creative.
We all have the same abilities.
Someone suppresses them,
and someone allows them
to be on par with the rational.
And someone, on the contrary,
has creative abilities over rational.
Then this person leaves society
because he looks different from others.
Many artists and musicians
were met on the streets
who have extravagant clothes
or extravagant appearance.
Their creativity is so superior
that they try to show it
in the audience,
in communication with many people
and even with themselves.
They try to stand out in everything.
Sometimes these standouts
become curious.
But we did not think about one more thing
related to the history of humanity.
First of all, this question
concerns our brain.
Our scientists and psychologists
conducted the following experiment.
They took an ordinary adult
and balanced him on the scales.
And asked him to move his toes.
And what did the experiment do?
The scales went down immediately.
After that,
the human brain
was asked to solve the problem.
The brain moved
and the scales went down.
What would it mean?
It turned out that
whether it happens in the physical body
at the level of muscle reduction
or in the nervous work,
it consumes all energy.
Energy in the human body is blood.
Blood brings energy
to the organ that works more.
to the organ that consumes energy.
And during its evolution,
the brain,
as well as any other organ,
learned to save energy.
If the brain consumes a lot of energy,
it means that energy is not enough for the muscles.
It means that the person will not have time
to escape from the tiger's cage.
The brain learned to save energy.
Once the problem is solved,
the brain does not want to solve it anymore.
It acts according to the standard.
After solving the problem once,
the brain always solves the problem
in the way it has already solved.
Therefore, any new decision,
the brain is a source of increased danger.
The brain has to solve this problem.
The brain has to spend unnecessary energy.
Therefore, the first reaction to new energy is
to say, no, I don't need it.
Wait, don't rush.
In this case, on the one hand,
the brain protects us.
Imagine that every time you wake up in the morning,
you need to remember or invent a new way
to tie your laces.
Every time you wake up in the morning,
you need to remember how to use a toothbrush.
At the moment, we do it all automatically.
We don't even think about how we brush our teeth,
how we clean the bed,
how we get ready to go to work.
But once we did it all for the first time.
We were taught all this.
At the moment, it's all gone automatically.
When we are told to choose another route
when going to work,
we say, no, thank you, we are comfortable this way.
I'm already used to this way,
I will go this way.
The only thing that can move us
is today's car traffic jams.
We need to try to find a way around.
But we don't do it often.
We often sit down and do what we did.
This kind of people are called conservative.
When we say,
once our brain solved the problem,
well done, no more.
Let's consider the third reason
for the manifestation of inertia in a person's thinking.
Not every person is a creative person.
So, this is a theological reason.
Let's take the most common and popular book in the world.
I have the Bible in my hands.
Let's open it.
Let's open it on the first page.
The first book of Moses.
Chapter 1, verse 1.
I quote from verse 1.
It says,
God created heaven and earth in the beginning.
Let's pause for a second and think.
What did God do in the beginning?
He created.
Who is God?
God is the Creator.
So, God's belonging,
or divine entity,
is to create.
God is the Creator.
The rest of the verses say
that He created the light,
the earthly creatures, the sea creatures, and so on.
But verse 26 is the creation of man.
What does it say?
God said,
Let us create man according to our image, according to our likeness.
And let them reign over the sea fish,
and over the birds of heaven,
and over the cattle, and over all the earth,
and over all the beasts that hang on the earth.
Verse 27.
And God created man according to the image of man,
and man created them according to the image of God.
So, the Bible gave us the answer.
If we read carefully what is written,
we find the difference
in the divine creation
between what God intended to do
and what He did.
Let us read the beginning of verse 26 more carefully.
And God said,
Let us create man according to our image,
according to our likeness.
And let us read verse 27.
And God created man according to the image of man,
according to the image of God.
And He created him, man and woman.
What is missing?
Man lacked likeness.
He was created according to the image of God,
but without likeness.
He intended to create according to the image and likeness,
but he got only the image.
Perhaps this is why there is a widespread opinion
that creative inclinations are a gift from God.
Not everyone is given this gift.
God intended to give likeness,
but not everyone succeeded.
Likeness means to be a creator,
to determine the inner content,
to create according to the image of God,
to create something new,
something that has not yet been created,
to create abilities and opportunities,
whether they are given or not.
But we have good news.
Since God intended to create man
according to the image of man,
we decided to use this intention.
And for this we are doing our today's task.
The topic we are discussing now is the management of one's abilities.
We will see why someone becomes a winner,
and someone does not.
How goals are built,
and what role do images play in the construction of goals,
and how to achieve the right psychological attitude
to come to victory, to be at the top of the pyramid.
Let's look at who becomes a winner,
or what makes a person a winner.
As Jack Walsh, the CEO of General Electric,
used to say,
if you do not take the opportunity to win,
then others will do it for you.
What is hidden behind these words?
What did this man want to tell us?
The meaning should be clear to everyone.
The whole world is filled with opportunities.
Everyone has the same opportunities,
but someone uses these opportunities, someone does not.
Remember, we all had the same starting positions
when we said,
please draw a human figure using only 10 figures,
a square, a triangle and a helix.
Everyone had the same resources at their disposal,
but someone managed to compile them,
and he got something outstanding.
And someone refused to do this work at all,
and decided to do it later.
What is difficult here?
The difficulty is that someone takes and does,
and someone says, I will have time.
This is what distinguishes a winner from a loser.
The winner does not stop at what he has achieved,
he does not pass by the opportunities he has received,
he does not pass by the opportunities provided by the environment.
He takes these opportunities and uses them.
But how?
Is he satisfied with every opportunity,
every opportunity, every idea offered to him?
Or does he prefer the ideas that are spread all over the world?
We know that many people come to us,
and we meet them, and each of them tells us,
here is an interesting idea, here is a pleasant case,
here is such an opportunity, here is such an opportunity.
If you follow everyone, you have to run away,
and you spend your energy on the right and on the left,
and as a result you come to nothing.
The Russian folk proverb says,
that you chase two hares and you do not catch one.
How to be? How to find out which hare is yours?
And which one to chase?
Here we get the experience of great people,
the experience of people who have passed many trials in life
and have achieved great goals.
Let's look at the example of Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Already today, when he became the governor of the United States,
Arnold Schwarzenegger says that he always knew,
being a boy,
that he would achieve a lot in life.
He clearly imagined what heights in society would be mastered by him,
what heights he would reach.
And he gives such an example.
Even before he won his first prize, the Mr. Universe,
he clearly imagined,
training and competing in intermediate competitions,
how he would be awarded this prize, the Mr. Universe.
He knew and, approaching these competitions,
he had no doubt that the prize would be his.
Before all these years of competition,
he imagined how he would receive this prize,
how this prize would be awarded to him.
So, when this prize was really awarded to him,
he no longer doubted and was not surprised that he got this prize.
The same thing, he says, happened to his acting career.
When he first started filming,
he imagined how he would be a popular actor,
a well-paid actor,
who would be in various films.
And we know why we love Schwarzenegger.
Why we see Arnold in the movies,
as a monster killer, as a comedy actor.
And we love him for his versatility,
for his ability to show himself and play any role,
even if someone says that he is a mountain of muscles.
But we have seen him in many comedy films.
And finally,
when he, a native of the United States,
runs for governor,
he clearly imagines and dreams
how he would become and take up the post of governor.
His imagination, his dreams,
his built image clearly make him understand,
or simply draw him into the world
he built with his imagination.
How can this happen?
Why do some people build these images
and get into them, and others don't?
The answer to this question is both difficult and simple.
Some people find strength in themselves,
find confidence in themselves,
and find the opportunity to dream
about the future.
And others refuse to dream.
They refuse to dream.
And they say to themselves,
this is still a dream,
dreams will not come true,
why should I dream again?
But let's go back to our past.
Let each of us remember,
did you have a case when you dreamed about something?
Did you dream hard?
And you got what you dreamed about.
Dig into your memory.
I am sure that this is what everyone has.
Someone dreamed about a new job,
an interesting one, and got it.
Someone dreamed about buying a car, and got it.
Someone dreamed about a new apartment,
and now lives in this apartment.
Someone dreamed about getting married,
imagining a future spouse, and got it.
Someone dreamed about starting their own business,
and now owns this business.
Why do we still treat our dreams so seriously?
Why is it still considered indecent
to dream and talk about your dreams in society and among people?
What is the reason?
It is not in vain that we talked about inertia of thinking
at the end of the last topic.
It is connected with the fact that we were told
that it is harmful to dream.
Do not dream, do not think, be like everyone else,
do what you are asked to do.
But today we are entering a new era.
Today we live in the 21st century.
This century demands creativity, creative abilities,
constant innovation, constant change.
Today our inner self tells us
to be a creator, to dream, to do something new,
to create a future for yourself, for your country, for all of humanity.
Let's move on to the next topic.
What is the goal of education?
How are goals created?
How are they achieved?
Let's talk about this topic.
In 1953, an experiment was conducted at the University of Yeltsin.
Graduates of this university,
preparing to receive diplomas,
were asked one question.
Dear graduates, please tell me,
which of you has a clear goal, what does he want to achieve in life?
The answer to this question is interesting.
Only 3% of students said that they have a clear goal.
They clearly know how to achieve it.
13% of students said that they have an idea of what they want in life.
They have an idea of their goals.
84% said that they haven't thought about their goals yet.
They have an idea of what they want in life.
The main goal for today is to receive a diploma,
to have a rest, to swim, to sunbathe, to go to a disco.
Only after they find a new job,
they will think about their goals.
Pay attention to these numbers.
3% had a clear goal and knew how to achieve it.
13% just wanted and knew what they wanted from life.
84% had no idea what awaits them in the future and what they are striving for.
Exactly 20 years later, in 1973,
the same experimenters found the same people.
But since money is the key to success in the United States,
they began to measure the well-being of these former students.
What do you think they found?
How much did these 3% succeed in relation to others?
It turned out that the total income of these 3%
exceeded the total income of all other graduates.
When they began to find out what the matter was,
how they managed it, it turned out that everything was the same.
These 3% had a clear idea of their goals.
Most of them said that they had already achieved these goals.
Now they have higher goals.
And that they were moving towards their goals,
following a certain plan, developed back then,
which was only occasionally corrected.
The remaining students, now adults,
about 13% said that they had dreams,
that they remembered what they dreamed of in the future,
to study at a college, to study at a university.
But the dreams were not fruitful.
And about 84% did not think about their goals,
and lived their lives following their goals.
They threw themselves to the right or to the left,
trying to catch the chance.
So, we asked ourselves a question.
How to understand if this is my chance or not?
Should I catch my chance in this place or not?
Should I take this offer or not?
Does it make sense to work with these people,
or should I take others?
The answer to these questions
was given by these 3% of people,
who had clearly set goals,
and who had plans to achieve them.
Moreover, these opportunities opened up to them
when they moved from one stage to another.
And they needed a new resource, new knowledge, new situations.
Then, as if by magic,
as if by the invention of a magic wand,
those opportunities opened up to them,
and they started to dream about them.
Again, everything goes back to dreams.
So, the main parameters of success,
determining a successful person from a unsuccessful one,
determining a winner from a winner,
are a clear vision of goals,
a clear idea of goals,
what I want from life,
and a knowledge of a plan,
how I will achieve these goals.
Let's recall,
God created man in His image.
We create our life in His image.
The image plays a primary role.
In the beginning, we need to create an image,
and only then this image is filled with the material world,
or is filled with material things.
In the beginning, the mental image is created in our head,
it is created in our thoughts,
and it is directed to the future.
It is an image of the desired future,
an image of a possible future,
an image of our possibilities.
But this image will not be realized if we do not have a plan,
if we just sit and dream,
as these 13% showed,
we will not succeed.
We need to undertake something else,
to achieve our goals, to achieve our success.
An interesting point.
In the 1970s, in the United States,
there was a serious interest in long-term research.
Long-term research is a research that is extended in time,
like the research at Yale University,
which began in 1953 and ended in 1973.
One of such experiments is described in American literature.
The experiment is as follows.
In the early 1970s,
thousands of students were carefully selected.
Among them, the brightest representatives were selected,
the best representatives of the American class.
These were not white people,
these were not black people,
these were not Chinese people,
these were mixed people.
There were all of them.
There were many, many schoolchildren who passed through this experiment.
Among them, the best representatives of the schools,
the best representatives of the classes were selected,
and they were going to the same school.
The same careful selection was carried out among all the teachers of the United States.
Among 100,000, hundreds of thousands of students,
a few were selected.
Among tens of thousands of teachers,
a few were also selected and sent to these experimental schools.
The most outstanding programs of education were created for these experimental schools.
The students were told that they were the most outstanding students,
the brightest representatives of the American continent.
The same was said to the teachers.
The teachers were given special instructions on the upbringing of special children,
and the teachers themselves belonged to a special cohort of teachers,
on whom the greatest hopes were placed.
After they graduated from school,
the same way, the cut of these students was made.
It turned out that the vast majority of these students
took outstanding positions in society.
They became senators,
they became presidents of companies,
owners of their own business,
outstanding journalists,
outstanding inventors and engineers.
The essence of this experiment,
its tragedy,
or its whole charm,
is that the best representatives of their kind
were the most average students.
Among hundreds of thousands, the most average students were selected,
the most average,
without any distinction from the others.
Neither excellent students, nor hooligans, nor debauchers,
nor creatives,
nor talents.
But the most, the most average.
The same was done with the teachers.
The most average teachers were selected,
without any distinction, without any printing,
without any flaws, without any injuries, nothing.
If not for this experiment,
no one would have known about these teachers and these students.
The same way, the curriculum was selected.
These were the most average curriculum of the middle school.
Just one thing.
One attitude.
That you are a unique personality.
That you have great hopes.
And that you have great success.
That you have great success.
One, just one, psychological attitude.
The basic principles of self-impression.
There are only three of them.
You can not only do it,
not necessarily enter a state of relaxation,
in order to self-impress yourself.
There are at least three more ways of self-impression,
that you can do on your way to work,
during breaks, during lunch breaks, during work.
The first way of self-impression is affirmation.
You affirm as if something should happen.
For example, you need to pass an exam.
Or, for example, you need to pass an interview.
Or you need to sign some important contract.
Starting in a day, in two,
before you need to sign the contract,
you constantly repeat,
I will take this client, I will sign this contract.
This contract will be signed.
I will sign this contract.
This client will be mine.
I will take this client.
Thus, as they say, water grinds the stone.
Little by little,
until your creative consciousness,
until your creative hemisphere
begins to be a little bit more confident
in the implementation of your plans.
As a result,
as practice shows,
in most cases,
such a psychological attitude leads you to victory,
leads you to success.
And when the time comes to sign the contract,
you will no longer doubt signing this contract.
And finally,
you should not just imagine
how this contract will be concluded,
you should not just imagine how this contract will be concluded,
you should not just foresee the whole situation
and imagine it in reality.
You need to be convinced that this contract will happen.
And what does conviction give us?
A lived experience.
What can we say about our past?
We are convinced of its implementation.
In the same way,
we should be convinced of the implementation of future things.
We should look at them as if they have already happened.
When the disciples came to Jesus Christ and said,
Teacher, teach us how to pray.
Jesus Christ answered,
Pray as if you have already received what you are asking for.
This is the main principle of self-improvement.
In this case, the principle of self-improvement is similar to the prayer
that Jesus Christ said to his disciples.
Repeat to yourself,
want and desire what you are asking for,
as if you have already received it.
And then it will come true.
And then it will be given to you.
But we talked about a long-term experiment
and talked about schoolchildren,
who were told from childhood that they were meant for something more.
That they are outstanding personalities.
That great hopes are placed on them.
How can we, who have not been conducted this experiment,
who still doubt,
whether they can do something great or not?
What do you think?
If you had already won the race of millions,
if you had already participated in any competition
in which millions competed with you,
imagine,
you won the Olympics,
or you competed with millions of companies
on a very competitive market,
and your company was ahead,
you became the winner.
Or you participated in the selection
for a vacant position,
which was sought by a million people,
and you were chosen as the best.
Tell me, please,
how can you,
purely by your inner state,
your psychological mood,
believe that it will be so?
Most likely,
that having won once in the race of millions,
having won once in a competition,
for a new competition,
for a new goal,
for a new competitiveness,
I ask you to pay attention to the words,
I will make you a small gift.
It may seem small to someone,
but someone will take it with him for life,
he will change his whole idea of life.
Everyone knows about it,
but few people think about the meaning of it.
So,
many,
or even most,
know that during ejaculation,
sperm of a man
is splashed from 5 to 100 million sperm.
You also know
that from these millions of sperm
only one fertilizes the egg cell.
Each of us
has gone through the evolutionary path of development
from sperm to adult.
Each of us
has won in the race of millions.
Think about it.
Each of us
is a representative of a multi-million community.
All the other millions,
they died to win the race.
You are a representative of a whole people,
a whole civilization.
And you represent its interests.
Once you have won in the multi-million race,
to compete with some hundred other
like you is not possible anymore.
It is not possible to imagine
how many people
will be there
to win the race.
Realize your victory.
And go through life
with this realization.
We are moving to
another sub-topic
called
intuition.
It is a very important
sub-topic.
Each of us
has faced
such a situation in life.
When somewhere
something was telling us
to go here
or not to go there.
But we did our own thing.
We turned to our rational mind
and said that nothing can happen.
Because it has rational
and logical explanations.
We did what our mind told us
but not as intuition.
And every time when something went wrong
we said that we felt it.
I knew something.
I will tell you a story
that happened to me.
I was a student.
I will tell you about my mistake.
Once I had to buy a car.
I came to the seller
and examined the car.
I was satisfied with everything.
But something inside me
was telling me
not to buy this car.
I remembered
that I was buying a car
and regretting it.
Then I listened to my doubts
and hired an expert.
He was a car mechanic
who was an expert
in cars
and had a lot of experience.
He went to the car
and examined the car thoroughly.
He drove it on a lift.
We drove a few more kilometers.
Everything was fine.
I trusted the expert
and the seller.
I trusted that the car
would be a good choice for me.
And that it would be what I was dreaming about.
The expert told me
that I had to buy it
for the price.
The next day we drove
and re-registered the car.
That day we had to drive it
for about 100 kilometers.
We live in a country house in the summer.
It's about 100 kilometers
from one end of Moscow to the country house.
I got in the car
and drove.
About 30-50 kilometers later
I noticed strange things.
It turned out
that the car had a malfunction
of the automatic transmission.
But this malfunction
can only be noticed
when the car is well warmed up
and has driven for a long time.
It's clear that my attempts
to find the seller
were unsuccessful.
His mobile phone was turned off.
All other contacts were interrupted.
The address he had
in the PTS
was not known.
So it was a hit.
After I had already registered
the car,
I had to look for the seller.
But I live in a country house
and I can't turn off my mobile phone.
So I had to sell it to the honest seller.
To be honest,
I couldn't fix the malfunction.
So I lost
about 50% of the money I paid for it.
But
I gained much more.
Later
I began to pay attention
to the inner voice
that worries me
when I make a deal.
I began to pay attention
to the cases
when the inner voice
tells me that it makes sense
and it doesn't.
Moreover,
I began to pay attention
to the cases of dj vu
that sometimes tell us
that I have seen it before
and I remember it.
I began to scroll my memory
to see what it means
when entrepreneurs
work with such intuition.
Most successful entrepreneurs
rely on their intuition.
I remember the statement
of a businessman
who knew nothing
about proteins,
biological additives,
biogranulates.
He asked his childhood friend
to start a business
and told him about
the fermentative meat
that is used in the food industry.
He said that this peptone
in our country
has stopped being produced
but he knows where to buy it
in order to start selling it.
He listened to his childhood friend
and invested in this business.
Today he is one of the biggest players
in the biochemistry market in Moscow.
He is one of the biggest suppliers
of different biological additives
in food in the food market in Moscow.
How?
How did he start
his business
without knowing anything
about chemistry,
biological additives,
biotechnology?
He is a man with a mathematical education,
he risks,
he sells his car,
he invests money in this field.
I have repeatedly asked him
this question,
why is there a gold mine?
What did you tell me
that I should do?
What does it tell me?
What is inside of us?
What inner voice tells us
whether to do it or not?
Why do some people listen to this inner voice
and others don't?
Most of the successful people
give a lot of importance
to their inner voice.
They say that
they would never understand
this intricate information
if they didn't listen to their inner voice.
Sometimes you have to make a decision
instantly,
without having time to study all aspects of this business.
And then the only right decision
is to listen to the inner voice.
Let's recall.
Most of the great people
get answers to their questions in their dreams.
Mendeleev.
For a long time
many alchemists of the world
were fighting to sort out
the scattered system of chemical elements
that existed.
Mendeleev was asking himself the same question.
And one night
he saw this table in his dream.
It was the beginning of a new science.
Since then we have not alchemy,
but chemistry.
Elias Hume,
the inventor of the sewing machine.
For a long time he was fighting
how to make a knot in a needle
go back and forth
until he had a dream
that he was on an uninhabited island
surrounded by natives
stabbing him with spears.
Each spear has a hole
on the edge of the spear.
The hole is located here.
When he woke up,
he realized
that just by moving the needle's ear
from the end to the beginning
you can make knots.
Another famous inventor,
biologist James Watson,
who discovered the DNA formula,
had the same dream.
He was sleeping
and he had a dream
that two snakes were fighting
and hanging from a tree.
When he woke up,
he realized that the DNA formula
is a double spiral.
And he got a Nobel Prize for this.
Thus, in our unconscious
there are really
hidden possibilities
that can be used for our purposes
and for our benefit.
I am going back to the topic
when we said
that the first thing to do
is to build an image of the desired future.
The second thing to do
is to write a clear plan of achieving this goal
or this image of the desired future.
This plan will work for us.
It will help us to find the things
and ideas that we need to achieve success.
It will give us the opportunities
that we dream about
and that we can use.
But,
as always,
the question is what to do
and how to do it.
There is no time to wait for months
or weeks to make a decision.
There is no time to relax
and to have a nervous muscle relaxation session
in order to get the right answer
while being relaxed.
The answer will be the same
as we talked about self-improvement.
Let's make a statement.
The question is
how to make a rational decision
and to make it in accordance with your intuition.
How to make a rational grain of grain
and to open up to creativity.
Then we start to act in the same way.
We just start to speak
and to inspire ourselves
that we trust our intuition
and that it will give us the right answer.
I trust my intuition
and my intuition will give me the right answer.
After repeating this statement ten times,
at the end of the tenth statement
we will listen to it
and the first inner voice that will tell you
will be the right answer
to make the right decision.
Now we will try
the tools that
many people use in their daily life.
When there is no time to wait
for the third eye to open,
when there is no time to wait for the talent to show up,
when you need to create something new,
something creative right now.
People often ask
how to make a rational decision.
It is easy to make a decision spontaneously,
but can you make it on purpose?
Imagine that when you are completely relaxed
you don't need to inspire yourself
with creative development.
Instead you imagine that you are surrounded
by people who are important for you,
who understand your field.
You can imagine that you are visited
by Bill Clinton, Bill Gates,
Vladimir Putin,
Alla Pugacheva and Joseph Kabzon
who are consulting you on your question.
You are asking them questions in your mind
and they are answering you.
They are working together to find the right answer
that interests you.
Napoleon Hill,
the author of the book The Duma and the Rich,
tried such a mental representation.
Hillary Clinton uses such a mental consultation.
Many successful entrepreneurs advise such a mental consultation.
When they can't find the right answer on their own,
they present themselves in the society
as people whose opinion is important for them
and ask them questions
and consult with them on a mental level.
Nobody knows and can't explain
what is happening in nature
and why it is happening.
But the answers are there.
And the practice shows
that these answers confirm the reality.
These answers are the answers people are looking for.
These answers lead people to success.
The next topic of our lesson is the development of creative imagination.
These are methods of not disarming the intuition,
not disarming the subconscious.
These are methods we can use
while being in our usual state of consciousness.
These are methods that allow us
to apply the skills of creativity
without entering into some special altered states of consciousness
and without expecting to be disoriented.
Let's get acquainted with these methods.
There are many of them,
but the most basic and effective
are the methods we are going to learn today.
The first method I want to show you
is the method used to develop the ability to remember.
It is called Atlantis.
It is a method of memory.
It is a method of memory
that allows us to remember
the words we are going to say.
Put your hands on the paper.
Close your eyes.
Try to remember the words I am going to say.
You need to imagine them clearly.
Keep them in your mind.
And at the end of the exercise
write them down on a piece of paper.
Are you ready?
Let's start.
The house.
The ship.
The moon.
The sailor.
The dog.
The stool.
The tower.
The train.
The glass.
The ship.
The shelf.
The air.
The pit.
The sea.
The girl.
The parachute.
The tobacco.
The rainbow.
The motorcycle.
The bucket.
The smile.
The first word is the house.
The last word is the smile.
Please try to repeat these words
in the same order they were pronounced.
Stop the recording.
Write down the words and count them.
How many did you get?
The psychologists calculated
that the normal size
or the normal volume of the normal human's RAM
is equal to 5-8 objects.
That is, in a normal case
the number of objects is equal to 5.
In a non-excessive case
a person remembers from 5 to 8
objects that are not connected to each other.
These are the objects that we have just pronounced in the form of words.
But why do we refer to this method
as the method of creative imagination,
the development of creative imagination?
This method has one interesting feature.
One interesting point.
You can remember a large amount of information
using one elementary method.
You can start imagining
how the first object is transformed into another
or how it is connected to it.
You can write a kind of script
from the words that are pronounced separately.
Let's imagine how this can look like.
The first word is the house.
The second word is the ship.
I associate the house with the ship.
The house is transformed into a ship
and becomes a captain's cabin.
The next word is the moon.
I imagine a ship flying against the background of the moon.
It is flying,
the sails are inflated
and at this moment a sailor falls from the ship.
The next word was a sailor.
The sailor falls to the shore
and a dog runs up to him and starts biting him by the leg.
Or a little bit higher.
Accordingly,
a stool falls on the dog.
The stool turns into a tower.
The tower is not a tower by itself.
The tower is a pipe at the train
that is flying at full speed somewhere far away.
Looking from afar,
we see that the train is flying along the edge of the stool.
Then the stool turns into a shelf.
Some kind of bookshelf
that hangs in the air.
It is not just air,
but a pipe that blows to the ground
and a pit is formed on the ground.
But nothing is empty,
so the pit is filled with water and a sea is formed.
A sea in which a girl is swimming.
This girl is pulled out of the sea by a parachute.
As a result, everything crumbles
and falls to the ground with tobacco.
But not everything falls to the ground.
The books turn into a rainbow.
A motorcycle is racing along this rainbow at full speed,
behind which a bucket is tied.
Of course, all this makes you smile.
Thus,
having connected the sequence of 20 words,
it is not difficult for me to name them one after another.
Try again.
Put the piece of paper aside
or turn it over to the other side.
Take a pen and try to reproduce
the words that we have voiced.
So, the first word is a house.
The last word is a smile.
The clock is ticking.
There is another method
that allows you to fill in such a large number
of objects that are not connected at all.
I like it less,
but it is also present.
It can also be used.
If you often have to remember a large amount of information,
you can use it as a clue
or as a clue,
to find objects in your house.
Imagine your room.
You probably know where your wardrobe is,
where your phone is, where your TV is,
where your bedside table is,
where your table lamp is,
where your daylight lamp is,
which side of the window is on which side,
which curtains are on which curtains,
what is usually on the windowsill,
what is on the wall.
In this way,
remembering your things,
remembering your situation,
you can create a mental map.
And to this map,
to the location of your things,
you can attach other words
or other things that you need.
For example, I decided to remember the word house.
I remember that in my room there is a wardrobe.
And I imagine how my wardrobe turns into my house.
The one I want to remember.
The next thing I have is a bedside table.
I connect the bedside table to the ship.
The next is a TV.
I connect it to the Moon.
In this way,
consistently combining different objects,
I build up the sequence of words
that I am going to remember.
You can do the same operation.
You may ask,
how are these methods of memory
connected with the development of creative imagination?
I do not offer in vain
to create a mental map.
to start with this.
Because to connect a rainbow
and curtains
may seem difficult to someone.
Someone may say,
it is not a big deal,
curtains are bent,
and a rainbow is formed.
Someone may say,
it is not a big deal,
but it is not a big deal.
The development of creative imagination
is to imagine how incompatible
are the things that combine with each other.
How a rainbow is formed from a tobacco,
how a wardrobe becomes a house,
how a TV becomes a Moon,
how a phone becomes a sea.
By connecting such things,
we remove stereotypes,
we break the inertia of thinking,
we open up to the new,
and as a result, this new opens up to us.
Let us consider another method,
which is impossible to apply
without the developed
creative imagination
and without the method of connecting
the two things we have already obtained.
In the theory of solving
the creative imagination,
there are laws of the development
of artificial systems.
One of the laws states
that any system develops in a spiral,
from a monosystem to a b-system.
A monosystem develops
in a b-system.
A b-system develops
in a polysystem.
This is a common law of development.
We can see it in the example
of a plant,
a new seed, etc.
In this case,
we consider only one common law
of development from a monosystem to a b-system.
And our topic is the topic of b-systems.
It would seem that
A and B
are the same thing.
Nothing unusual.
But if we add a little imagination,
a little imagination,
we will see
that we have a little man.
Let us see how it develops.
To make it more fun,
we will call our b-systems
the turbines.
Turbines are the most important
and the word turbines
means the stupid b-systems.
As an example,
let us consider a king.
A king is a monosystem.
It is one man.
The natural development of events
implies
that two kings
appear instead of one.
Two kings on one throne,
two kings in one state.
This is a plot.
We can develop some interesting plot lines
based on this.
How does it happen that two kings
are in one kingdom?
And they create their own plot line
that gives the work
to the famous three-body theory.
The first development
is two identical systems
in one union.
For example,
a gun was a single barrel,
but became a double barrel.
A system plus a sosystem.
One of the varieties of b-systems.
What does it mean?
It means that if we consider
one king as a single system,
then in the system of kingdoms
we take something adjacent to the king.
For example,
it can be a prince,
a princess, a queen or a jester
that is always adjacent to the king.
And we say that the king and the jester are on the throne.
Or the king and the jester are in the crown.
The king and the princess are on the throne.
The king and the queen are on the throne.
Since we have already taken a gun,
let's think about a gun
and a sosystem of bayonets.
Or a gun
and some other thing
like a submachine gun.
The next one
is a system and a non-system.
We have to imagine
and attach to our system
some other system
that is not related to this system.
Thus, we can take
a king and a queen on the same throne.
Or a king and a queen on the same throne.
A gun
with an optical sight.
Or a gun
with a broom.
The next one
is a non-system.
It is when the systems are developing.
Sometimes
anti-systems are added to them.
In our case,
it can be a king and a jester on the same throne.
A gun and a first aid kit in the same bottle.
Let's take a pencil as an example.
We can see that the systems are developing in the same way.
System 1 is a pencil.
System 2 is a two-color pencil.
On one side it is green.
On the other side it is red.
Or blue.
You must have seen such pencils
when you were in school,
or when you were buying such products.
The next one is a system plus a system.
On one side it is a pencil.
On the other side
it is a leg.
It looks like a circular.
What is the name of this leg?
System and non-system.
It is hard to imagine what it is.
But I am sure that someone has seen
such a pencil.
It looks like a decorative dagger.
But this dagger has a griffin on the tip.
I don't know the functionality of this product.
But it can be a souvenir
for a sailor or a soldier.
You can say that you fought
and shed blood for this.
Now you can sign important documents.
And finally, the system plus the anti-system.
Everyone knows it.
Here is a pencil.
And here is a leg.
You sign it and erase it.
Let's think.
Knowing the law,
how does it work?
Let's take any object
and see how we can develop it.
Or what we can offer to a newbie
for his development.
Any object.
Name any object.
For example, a bottle.
I saw a bottle.
Let's see how it can develop.
One bottle, one system.
A bottle plus a bottle.
You saw it in shops.
It's already developing.
How can you use two bottles in one system?
Two objects for the price of one.
Most often. A gift for a purchase.
I remember. There is some kind of liqueur.
Exactly.
There is some kind of liqueur.
It's a chocolate liqueur.
On one side it's chocolate, on the other side it's white.
They are united in one part, but divided in two.
Here it's white, and here it's chocolate.
Two bottles in one bottle.
A system plus its system.
What is most often used with bottles?
A bottle of beer comes to mind.
A bottle of beer with a bottle of beer.
A salty fish.
How can we use it?
To promote our product.
If we are beer sellers,
we say not just a gift for a purchase,
but a gift for a purchase to our bottle of beer
you get one taranka.
Cool.
There are more options.
A bottle plus a bottle.
A bottle of wine and a fougere.
A cool idea.
It's often used in shops.
Look, I took a bottle.
I'm serious. I didn't prepare for this.
It's not a homemade workpiece.
It's a system.
We've seen it.
A system plus its system.
Now a system and not a system.
A bottle and something
that has nothing to do with a bottle.
What can we see?
Anything. A bottle and a book.
As they say,
don't get into a bottle and read a book.
It's a good gift.
A set. A student set.
That's how we'll call it.
Next.
A system plus an anti-system.
In our country,
we don't even raise our hands
to do something with a bottle.
We don't even open it.
For example, we take a bottle
that is destroyed
after all the liquid is squeezed out.
There are bottles like this.
There is plastic water in special bottles.
There is water in plastic bottles.
After using this water,
the bottle becomes smaller.
Exactly.
I think it's called Elion.
If I remember correctly.
The water is drunk,
and the bottle is put together.
Many systems have already gone through this.
But many will only have to go through it.
What system are you going to improve?
What object do you want to touch
or look at for strength?
For the potential for innovation?
Take any.
Run them through this scheme.
See what can happen.
What can manifest itself.
Laws of development are necessary for everyone.
Any system goes through the stage of B-system
into the field of system.
And we are moving on to the next
object or next tool
for the development of creative possibilities.
Let's take a look at it.
All of us have heard
such consoles as
automoto, bike, photo, TV, video and others.
So, the next technique
of B-system
or the convergence of two systems
that are in contact with each other
is called binom fantasy.
In this case,
binom fantasy is one of the varieties
of the same turbos that we have just seen.
So, we divide our sheet
by a vertical line.
On the left side
we write down everything
that comes to our mind
when we hear the word
automoto.
On the right side
we write down a list of random words
that come to our mind.
Please, try to do it.
You have a hint on the slide.
I have a hint on the board.
I will have it shorter.
You will have it longer.
I hope that everyone has managed to do it.
So, what are we doing next?
This method is good.
Why?
To see something,
to find a new application for the old one
or to find a new creative idea.
What is it?
It is in simple terms
the development of the same creative imagination.
You just need to combine
the left part
with the right part.
Each word is a separate combination.
If I count
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
I will get 35 combinations.
It will be agro-sled, agro-carpet,
agro-kitchen, agro-socket, agro-nail,
agro-meat and agro-cat.
I will get 35 combinations.
I will combine
the other word
with all these combinations.
I will get
agro-socket, agro-socket,
bio-socket, video-socket, multi-socket.
This is starting to make me think.
I will do it with each word.
We can make conclusions.
If we have a spark,
if we have a creative thought,
we can give a reason
and find an application
of each word.
This is our creative vein,
our creative imagination.
We talked about purposefulness.
In any manifestation of creativity
we can show the consumer
why he needs the fruits of our creative imagination.
Let's look at one of these examples.
For example, agro-socket.
It is a socket for agronomy.
It is a socket-extender on the field.
A combine harvester can plug
its plug into this socket
and charge the battery of the combine.
This is a very necessary thing
in modern agriculture.
Especially considering the latest trends
that our government is preparing
for agricultural investments.
Our enterprise will soon be able
to earn an additional couple of million rubles
on these agro-sockets.
We just need to look and think
how and who will be able
to use these agro-cables
to charge our agro-sockets.
So,
let's look at a trend
called bio-sans.
We all know
how popular
bio-toilets are today.
Our sans have gone far
and have become
the most popular
in their design and design
of the sans that are offered today.
If the slide is very scary,
you won't risk anything
even if you don't wear diapers.
We have only considered
one word-combination
bio-sans,
one word-combination agro-socket.
And we can find our own application
and our own purpose
and novelty from these words.
For example,
what does a video-socket look like?
It's clear to everyone.
A video-socket is a socket for a video-monitor,
a TV-socket,
or a TV-socket.
There is an interesting application.
You can make a video-monitor
that has fingers in it,
and only then the video-monitor shows.
It's a sadistic application.
For example, for a camera.
You want to watch TV?
Here is a video-socket.
Aviomiaso!
It's a real achievement
of modern genetic engineering.
Can you imagine?
In our collective farm
all chickens are made of aviomiaso.
It's such a light and dietary meat
that you want to fly with it.
Of course, with the planes of famous airlines.
Multicooking.
A kitchen where you can cook food
for all countries of the world.
Or a kitchen where representatives
of different nationalities can come
and cook food there.
So, everyone has their own kitchen.
And finally, what can we do?
Aviadoyarka?
An interesting word.
A promising one.
Aviadoyarka.
Does it milk the planes?
Or does it milk the cows of the planes
of the famous airlines?
It's an interesting application.
It's interesting.
I have a lot of thoughts.
In both cases.
If Aviadoyarka milks the planes,
what does it get from the planes?
Probably, milk.
If it milks the cows of the planes,
who are these cows?
So, 35 words in total
and we already have some creative ideas.
We are just experimenting.
If you need an application
for this method,
you take the product of your factory,
your enterprise,
write it down instead of these random words
and make a table.
In the vertical table you write down the words,
in the horizontal table you write down the prefixes.
Agro, avia, bike, moto, photo, etc.
And you look at it.
What can you get?
And you think how to use it.
For what?
Maybe for advertising purposes?
Maybe for funny purposes?
Maybe to create rumors?
Or to create the very fact that it was created?
The rumors in the press have not disturbed anyone yet.
Both positive and negative.
As one of my friends said,
let them scold me on TV.
It's good that they scold me.
It's worse when they are silent.
Today they scold, tomorrow they praise.
This method is well-known to everyone.
I hope that you will use this method
and this method quite often
and it will bring you the fame and success
that you deserve.
Moreover, it is quite easy to use.
Thank you very much.
Let's move on to the next one.
I just wanted to show
what success our students achieve
at our seminars.
In this case, we see
electric toothpicks.
Toothpicks that everyone uses.
Everyone who lacks regular teeth.
For example, you come to a restaurant
and you are served meat.
You say, this is horse meat.
And they answer, no, we have eaten horse meat a long time ago.
This is a saddle.
In this case, you put on our electric toothpicks
and you have a shovel.
It is necessary for any gold digger
to determine the place where it is now.
Telepasta.
A paste that you can apply to your hand
and watch TV.
A great paste.
Astropastukh.
Yes, I remember this.
A brilliant invention.
A spirit that sows consciousness.
And stereo...
Arfa.
Yes, indeed.
Why they are not available yet, no one knows.
Poor girls sit and play Arfa.
One hand plays, the other holds.
With two hands.
A nose-cover.
It is a crown that you can put on your head
and also carry in your pocket.
In cold winter evenings
it will not let your feet freeze.
Rublya Tabak.
If you are a successful person
and you smoke,
it is not clear why you do not smoke.
You can not smoke.
Why do not you smoke our cigars?
Wrapped in money.
Pastoklop.
You will find an application for this small tube.
Vydrodelfin.
It is similar to a biodegradable drug.
It is its pet.
Bolt-a-zond.
It is a very useful thing.
Especially for a choric.
You know, for street restaurants and cafes.
Not just umbrellas,
but umbrellas that turn into asphalt.
And thus better hold.
Not a single gust of wind can carry this umbrella.
Ways of use.
And the type of existence of other objects
depicted on this slide,
you can think about it yourself.
This is the development of creative armament
and creativity.
Find unexpected combinations,
unexpected objects among themselves
and find their application.
For example, a casket for lovers.
Walking in the starry night evenings
you put on
your favorite, not a wreath of daisies,
but a busto helmet.
You put on the second helmet
and listen to your favorite music
through the speakers located
and twist the volume
and music through the settings
located at the top.
I have a disposable cup in my hands
and I have a disposable cup.
Everyone probably knows what it is.
Everyone has used it in many offices,
institutes, cafes.
There is a similar disposable dish.
It would seem that this is a brilliant invention.
The one who invented and began to implement
most likely became a millionaire.
You constantly think,
where do such thoughts come from?
This is a piece of sugar.
Not a piece, but a bag of sugar
that I need to use,
so that my tea or coffee,
depending on what I pour into this cup,
is sweet.
To do this, I need to tear this bag,
pour it here and find a spoon somewhere.
Look, the person who invented
or came up with the idea
probably is not in trouble now.
Just like those companies that
produce these bags in millions.
In every cafe, in every plane,
in every plane, in every train,
in every ship there are such bags.
They are everywhere, wherever we go,
in any bistro.
And in order to solve the problem
with mixing sugar,
he invented a spoon
with which we can mix
this sugar from our bag.
The method we have just gone through,
the B-system method,
allows us to combine the incompatible.
And it is true.
In 2003,
at the Academy of State Service
under the Presidency of the Russian Federation,
we were discussing
the B-system method.
And combining the incompatible,
my students came up with the idea
why not to combine
a disposable spoon
with a disposable piece of sugar.
In order to tear the bag,
we would not have a piece of sugar
that we put into this tea
and drink it.
What a gigantic market is opening up before us!
Yes, one piece of sugar
costs a penny,
but with millions of copies
it allows us to get rich.
And what do you think?
Thus,
it was decided that the idea was cool,
but in a couple of months
or in three or four years,
I do not remember exactly,
I went to one of the Moscow restaurants
and ordered a dessert, tea, coffee.
And on the tray I was brought
what do you think?
The invention of my students.
This is a stick,
but it has sugar at the end.
I asked the teacher
to bring me more.
And I was brought.
I did not believe my eyes.
I asked, do you do it yourself?
Because if you look closely,
in fact, there are quite rough pieces of burnt sugar.
They said, no, we buy.
They did not answer my question where.
And only in December 2006,
having visited the MacMason University in London,
the Queen herself
I found there a similar work of art.
Indeed, here it is realized.
A piece of sugar on a stick.
So far, only in the premium segment.
In the economy class.
You, my dear,
especially if you work in this industry,
still have a chance
to get rich and become rich.
So, dare.
Dear listeners, colleagues, viewers,
thank you for your attention.
I hope you were interested
to spend this time with me.
I, on my part, hope that we will meet again.
These are not the last and not the first topics
that we will discuss.
And most likely you will meet me
in the near future.
I wish you to develop yourself,
develop your creative imagination,
develop your innovative abilities
and achieve success
together with you and with us.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Goodbye. See you soon.